[Music]
you have your biggest fan and you don't
know what's up everybody Brendon huffard
here 100 days of SEO
you know I freaking love Chicago st. in
all my videos I think that intro makes
it a little bit more true it is a
stunning day I got the little guy out
for a walk it is absolutely beautiful
shout out to all the parents here's what
I'm excited about today two minute
Tuesday I'm gonna talk to you about what
managed WordPress hosting is and the
thing is I get this question all the
time because I host my sights on
flywheel and people are like dude what
does that even mean like what is managed
WordPress hosting why is that better
than Hostgator or Bluehost its first of
all it's a different planet the nose but
uh I'm gonna walk you through it so
let's go home let's jump in my computer
and I'll show you alright what's up
y'all we are in my computer we are gonna
talk about why managed WordPress hosting
is awesome today if you are new here I'm
Brendon huffard I'm the founder of SEO
for the rest of us in 100 days of SEO
I'm also the SEO director at an amazing
agency here in Chicago called click
studios and I'm a former teacher that's
why I'm so passionate about education
when it comes to SEO in the next two
minutes you are gonna learn what managed
WordPress hosting is the pros and cons
of it who it's best for who it's not
best for other types of web hosting how
to compare different WordPress hosting
providers and even how to move to a
managed WordPress host let's get into it
first what is shared hosting this is
what most people think of when they
think of hosting and the most people
that use shared hosting are building
their first website moving away from
wordpress.com I mean when I was doing my
first web site around 2010-2011 I was on
wordpress.com
I wanted to move to a you know I wanted
to use more plugins and things I
couldn't use there so I decided to move
away and that made sense for me to use
Hostgator then maybe number three you're
on a strict budget three dollars a month
is all you can afford for hosting but
here's the thing number four if none of
those first three are true for you if
this isn't your first website
you're not moving from wordpress.com and
you're not on a strict budget like that
you can afford $10 a month or $15 a
month for hosting like usually people
use Hostgator and Bluehost because some
influencers promoting it for the
affiliate fees and the thing is they
just don't understand the difference and
that's for this video is for these if
that's true for you this video is for
you do not make your hosting decisions
based solely on price now why can shared
hosting be bad honestly they focus on
volume over quality they want to get
more people in the door that's why their
affiliate commissions are so high they
do their best business when they have
millions and millions of users and if
they have a really high churn every
month they don't care because like
they're just driving so fast that if
like craps falling off the back of the
truck it doesn't even matter they make
most of their money on upsells and
hidden fees if you got hacked and you
need support like that's next for 200
bucks if you want an SSL certificate to
make your site secure that's extra money
the other thing they do in number three
is a throttle users and what that means
is is you start to get more and more
popular they actually slow down your
website and part of this happens on
accident because they're just
overcrowding their servers again they
care more about quantity than quality
but they will actually genuinely slow
you down if you're getting to using too
much of their system this is all really
bad and the reason is because hosting
when it comes to SEO hosting is
something that can really help you speed
up your website make sure your uptime is
up which also helps with your rankings
and helps just with better user
experience and also helps your website
stay secure when I was with Hostgator my
website was hacked my website was down a
lot it was really slow all the time it's
one of the reasons I moved to a managed
WordPress host so what is managed
WordPress hosting it's actually it's
quite literal it is somebody managing
your WordPress hosting as opposed to
just them shoving you in a server with
all these other random websites that
aren't related to yours
right you get support from really good
WordPress experts you get the best
WordPress security practices fast sites
you know staging environments all these
cool things I get free SSL certificates
with my hosting provider which is nice
really easy site management a lot of
cool stuff where they're gonna focus on
the hosting they're gonna focus on
making my site awesome so that I can
just focus on the business side who's
managed WordPress hosting best for so
really it's for a creative entrepreneurs
whether you're an agency or a freelancer
building sites for clients site owners
who don't want to deal with technical
details of web hosting if you're like I
don't know what an FTP is I don't know
what all this madness is on this
Hostgator dashboard that's awful you
know with all these upsells for email
and they even claim you know they even
claim to have SEO services that they'll
sell you which do nothing you know if
you're a blogger or an influencer and
the uptime of your site actually matters
you should consider really good hosting
if you have an e-commerce site and
you're an online store in your whole
business relies on your site being up
and fast this is something to consider
and then there's a couple other examples
as well but managed WordPress hosting
isn't for everybody it's a little higher
cost than what you're probably used to
spending and what you're used to seeing
on whatever influencers pushing Bluehost
this month which is hint it's all of
them you know it's a little bit higher
than that also it's just WordPress I
don't I don't know what else to say here
like you can only be on word for I don't
know why you wouldn't be on WordPress in
2019 but it's just WordPress and the
other thing is like they don't hook up
your email for you they don't do domain
registration why because that's actually
a different service that's kind of like
an agency that's like we do 50 different
things well that's hard unless you have
a huge team like maybe just focus on the
things you're best at so I use hover for
my my domain registration I use flywheel
for my hosting I use G suite for email
and you can link all of these up and I
prefer to have them be specialists at
what they do versus somebody like a
Hostgator or somebody garbage it just
like tries to do everything and does it
all poorly now you got a bunch of
options when it comes to managed
WordPress hosting the the oh geez in the
space are WP engine pressable and
Pantheon they've been around for a while
and then later on to around 2013
flywheel and Kinston came out
and then really recently Go Daddy's
starting to get into the managed
wordpress hosting him don't ever use
GoDaddy by God don't just stop it
no GoDaddy nobody wants you you but you
know I mean if you if you know me you
know where I stand on this I'm a
flywheel guy their support saved my
website when leadpages broke my website
and leadpages couldn't tell me what was
wrong
Hostgator couldn't tell me what was
wrong my developer friends couldn't tell
me what was wrong I migrated my site to
flywheel and they fixed it in like 10
minutes their support team are some of
the most crack developers they're also
really nice and funny in the chat which
I appreciated I'm dealing with real
humans you can check them out a hundred
days of SEO calm / flywheel do the right
thing for your site make the internet
better for everybody get a good host
last thing I want to tell you about
today is if you go to 100 days of SEO
calm you can sign up for our one-month
free email course the one ranking away
SEO challenge in just 30 days you are
going to get the blueprint to SEO
success with daily quantifiable actions
you can take to get more traffic more
leads and more customers and clients
from Google again just go to 100 days of
SEO comm it's right there at the top of
the homepage
I've been Brennan hover don't forget to
work hard be nice people and don't get
too lost trying to create something that
matters
[Music]
you have to be your biggest fan